[docs] update web publishing docs (#25934)
expo/expo: docs/pages/distribution/publishing-websites-webpack.mdx

---
title: Publish websites with Webpack
description: Different ways to publish the Expo web app with third-party services with webpack.
---

import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { NoIcon } from '~/ui/components/DocIcons';

> > **warning** In SDK 50 and above, publishing with `webpack` is deprecated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **warning** **Deprecation**: In SDK 50 and above, publishing with `webpack` is deprecated.
```

A web app created using Expo can be served locally for testing out the production behavior. Once the testing phase checks out, you can choose from a variety of third-party services to host it.

| Bundler   | Expo Router | API Routes | Description                                                                                |
| --------- | ----------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `webpack` | <NoIcon />  | <NoIcon /> | Outputs a Single Page Application (SPA) with a single **index.html** in the output folder. |

> ## Create a build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a web build
```

> Creating a build of the project is the first step to publishing a web app. Whether you want to serve it locally or host it on a third-party service, you have to export all JavaScript and assets of a project. This is known as a static bundle. It can be exported by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a web build of the project is the first step to publishing a web app. Whether you want to serve it locally or host it on a third-party service, you have to export all JavaScript and assets of a project. This is known as a static bundle. It can be exported by running the following command:
```

---
title: Publish websites with Webpack

> description: Different ways to publish the Expo web app with third-party services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Different ways to publish the Expo web app with third-party services with webpack.
```

---

import { APIBox } from '~/components/plugins/APIBox';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import { Tab, Tabs, TabsGroup } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';
import { Table, TableHead, Row, HeaderCell } from '~/ui/components/Table';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { YesIcon, NoIcon, PendingIcon } from '~/ui/components/DocIcons';

> **warning** In SDK 50 and above, publishing with `webpack` is deprecated.

A web app created using Expo can be served locally for testing out the production behavior. Once the testing phase checks out, you can choose from a variety of third-party services to host it.

| Bundler   | Expo Router | API Routes | Description                                                                                |
| --------- | ----------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `webpack` | <NoIcon />  | <NoIcon /> | Outputs a Single Page Application (SPA) with a single **index.html** in the output folder. |

## Create a build

> Creating a build of the project is the first step to publishing a web app. Whether you want to serve it locally or host it on a third-party service, you'll need to export all JavaScript and assets of a project. This is known as a static bundle. It can be exported by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a build of the project is the first step to publishing a web app. Whether you want to serve it locally or host it on a third-party service, you have to export all JavaScript and assets of a project. This is known as a static bundle. It can be exported by running the following command:
```

- Let's avoid contractions.

Run the webpack export command to compile the project for web:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx expo export:web']} />

The resulting project files are in the **web-build** directory. Any files inside the **web** directory are also copied to the **web-build** directory.

> If you make changes to your project, you'll need to rebuild it for production. Don't edit the **web-build** directory directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you make changes to your project, rebuild it for production. Do not edit the **web-build** directory directly.
```

> > **Tip:** If you want to serve your site in a subfolder, add its path to your **package.json** as shown below:
> >
> > ```json package.json
> > {
> >   "homepage": "/path/to/subfolder"
> > }
> > ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
> **Tip:** If you want to serve your site in a subfolder, add its path to your **package.json** as shown below:
>
> ```json package.json
> {
>   "homepage": "/path/to/subfolder"
> }
> ```
````

Let's remove the callout here. For consistency, I'd like us to avoid adding code snippets (other than inline ones)  in callouts. It also has broken styles.

![CleanShot 2023-12-19 at 02 06 23](https://github.com/expo/expo/assets/10234615/6494ae21-b62d-4763-aa9c-1c4a7fc08fa7)

Let's add this as a part of the main content. And since this is a "Tip", let's use **info** callout type here.

Run the following command to serve the single-page application:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx serve web-build --single']} />

Open [`http://localhost:5000`](http://localhost:5000) to see your project in action. This method is **HTTP only**, so permissions, camera, location, and many other things won't work.

## Hosting on third-party services

### Netlify

[Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) is a mostly-unopinionated platform for deploying web apps. This has the highest compatibility with Expo web apps as it makes few assumptions about the framework.

#### Manual deployment with the Netlify CDN

<Step label="1">

Install the Netlify CLI by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm install -g netlify-cli']} />

</Step>

<Step label="2">

Configure redirects for single-page applications.

If your app implements any navigation, you'll need to configure Netlify to redirect requests to the single **web-build/index.html** file. This can be done in Netlify by creating a **./public/\_redirects** file and redirecting all requests to **/index.html**.

Navigate inside the **web-build** directory and run the following command to create **\_redirects** file with follwing rule:

> ```sh web/_redirects

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash web/_redirects
````

/*    /index.html   200
```

If you modify this file, you must rebuild your project with `npx expo export:web` to have it safely copied into the **web-build** directory.

</Step>

<Step label="3">

Deploy the web build folder by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ netlify deploy --dir web-build']} />

> You'll see a URL that you can use to view your project online.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will see a URL that you can use to view your project online.
```

</Step>

#### Continuous delivery

Netlify can also build and deploy when you push to git or open a new pull request:

- [Start a new Netlify project](https://app.netlify.com/signup).
- Pick your Git hosting service and select your repository.
- Click **Build your site**.

### Vercel

[Vercel](https://vercel.com/) has a single-command deployment flow.

<Step label="1">

Install the [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/docs/cli).

<Terminal cmd={['$ npm install -g vercel@latest']} />

</Step>
<Step label="2">

>   Configure redirects for single-page applications.
>   Create a **vercel.json** file at the root of your app and add the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Configure redirects for single-page applications. Create a **vercel.json** file at the root of your app and add the following:
```

  ```json vercel.json
  {
    "buildCommand": "expo export:web",
    "outputDirectory": "web-build",
    "devCommand": "expo",
    "cleanUrls": true,
    "framework": null,
    "rewrites": [
      {
        "source": "/:path*",
        "destination": "/"
      }
    ]
  }
  ```

</Step>

<Step label="3">
  Deploy the website.

{' '}

<Terminal cmd={['$ vercel']} />

> You'll now see a URL that you can use to view your project online. Paste that URL into your browser when the build is complete, and you'll see your deployed app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will now see a URL that you can use to view your project online. Paste that URL into your browser when the build is complete, and see your deployed app.
```

</Step>

### AWS Amplify Console

> The [AWS Amplify Console](https://console.amplify.aws) provides a Git-based workflow for continuously deploying and hosting full-stack serverless web apps. Amplify deploys your PWA from a repository instead of from your computer. In this guide, we'll use a GitHub repository. Before starting, [create a new repo on GitHub](https://github.com/new).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [AWS Amplify Console](https://console.amplify.aws) provides a Git-based workflow for continuously deploying and hosting full-stack serverless web apps. Amplify deploys your PWA from a repository instead of your computer, so you must use a GitHub repository. Before starting, [create a new repo on GitHub](https://github.com/new).
```

<Step label="1">

Add the [**amplify-explicit.yml**](https://github.com/expo/amplify-demo/blob/master/amplify-explicit.yml) file to the root of your repository. Ensure you have removed the generated **dist** directory from the **.gitignore** file and committed those changes.

</Step>

<Step label="2">

> Push your local Expo project to a GitHub repository. If you haven't pushed to GitHub yet, follow [GitHub's guide to add an existing project to GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/importing-your-projects-to-github/importing-source-code-to-github/adding-locally-hosted-code-to-github).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Push your local Expo project to a GitHub repository. If you have not pushed to GitHub yet, follow [GitHub's guide to add an existing project to GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/importing-your-projects-to-github/importing-source-code-to-github/adding-locally-hosted-code-to-github).
```
